
THIS TUTORIAL IS FOR BEGINNERS, FOR HOW TO DOWNLOAD THE PRODUCT FROM GITHUB AND
INSTALL IT ON YOUR HOME COMPUTER.
Experienced CSS developers who have used GitHub before may not need this tutorial.

This tutorial is for the client-side version of Javascript DRAW, where you 
download the software directly from GitHub, and install it on your computer, 
and then use it and practice with it (by clicking on page.html). 
There will also be the server-side version, where a server application hosts
Javascript DRAW and controls it for you. More about that later.

Javascript DRAW is for quickly and intuitively drafting up web pages, 
partitioning the web page into sections and putting photos and text (including
text that has HTML markup) into the sections. It is a web page builder.

Javascript DRAW is intended for two audiences:
1. People who want to create a web page and know very little HTML, very little
CSS, and no Javascript.
2. CSS developers, who want an alternative to the current range of CSS frameworks
out there. You can draft up a web page, print out the resulting HTML & CSS, and , 
if you wish, make modifications to the printed-out HTML/CSS.

For the client-side version of Javascript DRAW, you have to download the product,
as a single zip file, from my GitHub account. Then you have to open up the zip file,
extracting the contents, so that page.html and all the supporting files and 
sub-directories are ready to use.

So you first have to go to my account, www.github.com/robertwilkins and from there
go to one of the repositories, the JavascriptDRAW repository. While CSS developers 
should have no problem navigating github.com, GitHub has a user interface and user
experience that is cluttered, a bit noisy, and not very intuitive. 
The main purpose of this tutorial file is to explain to beginners how to download 
and install the software.

OK, so go to www.github.com/robertwilkins and click on JavascriptDRAW to move to the
JavascriptDRAW repository.
Near the top-right corner of the github page, but a bit closer to the center of the page
than the top-right corner itself, you will see two buttons next to each other,
"Go to file" and "Code" . The "Code" button should be green.
Click on the "Code" button, and then click on "Download ZIP".

After clicking on "Download ZIP", assuming you are using a Windows PC, one of two 
things will happen. Either the zip file immediately goes to the subdirectory
This PC -> Downloads  (the name of the file should be JavascriptDRAW-main), 
or, before downloading the file, your PC presents to you a "Save File As"-style 
data entry panel, where you must fill out three data entry boxes.

If the data entry panel is skipped, and the zip file is immediately saved to your 
computer, look in This PC -> Downloads directory. You can change the name of the file, 
and you can move the file to whatever directory you choose.

If your PC displays this data entry box, do this:
Choose a directory on your home computer, such as This PC -> Documents.
Choose a filename for the zip-file that you are saving to your computer,
such as "zipfile01" , (without the quotes of course).
There is a third data entry box, where it says "Save as type" , and the default value
is already displayed as "Compressed (zipped) folder". Leave the third data entry box 
alone.
There will be a button at the bottom of the data entry panel, saying
"OK" or "Save". Click on that, the data entry panel disappears, and the zip file 
is saved to your PC.

THE ZIP FILE HAS NOW BEEN DOWNLOADED ONTO YOUR HOME COMPUTER.

Open up the file manager for your computer, if it's Windows, that will be 
File Explorer. Go to the directory where the zip file is stored.
Right click on the zipfile, and click on the "Extract All ..." option.

A second data entry panel will show up, where on the top is displayed the message:
Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folder
Select a Destination and Extract Files

On this data entry panel, there is a single data entry box, above which is the 
description: Files will be extracted to this folder:
(So, in this data entry box, you choose which directory to put the contents of the 
zip file in.)

The default value in this data entry box will look something like
C:\Users\public7\Documents\zipfile01   or
C:\Users\public7\Documents\JavascriptDRAW-main
You may keep the default value if you wish, what will happen then is the files you need,
including page.html, will be put in
C:\Users\public7\Documents\JavascriptDRAW-main\JavascriptDRAW-main
(but that's easy to fix, if you know Windows directories, and how to move files.)

If you choose for that data entry box:
C:\Users\public7\Documents
then the files and sub-directories you need will go into:
C:\Users\public7\Documents\JavascriptDRAW-main

In any case, once you have chosen the directory to specify in the data entry panel,
click on "Extract", and the contents of the zip file will be opened up in 
your chosen destination.
In your chosen destination, you will see:
page.html
code (a sub-folder)
photos (another sub-folder)
Other files you will see, in the same folder as page.html, are
content.js
some_options.js
explain_to_me.txt
explain_more1.txt  (this file you are reading)
small_entity_license.txt (the license for this software)

Click or right-click on page.html and you can IMMEDIATELY start practicing with 
the JavascriptDRAW tool! Have fun.
(What you see at the very beginning is just one box, the very beginning of the web page
you will draw up, and below that box, the user interface panel with options for 
putting smaller boxes inside the initial box, putting images and text into the boxes, 
and so forth.)
explain_to_me.txt gives you more knowledge for how the user interface for 
JavascriptDRAW works.




The language of this tutorial is for beginners. I know that if you are already familiar with GitHub, or already have experience downloading zip files (and extracting the contents
in a directory on your home PC), or have some experience with the basics of a Windows PC, 
then you might find the language to be wordy, long and tedious.


